Google is dying a slow painful death for
the last 20 years the company has
dominated the search engine role but now
this golden age is coming to end and the
way to do SEO is going to take
dramatically as a result so today I'm
going to break down exactly how and why
Google is dying what it's decline means
for the future of SEO and how you can
adapt your SEO strategies to not get
left behind but for you to understand
all of this we need to First uncover how
Google Rose to its traditional prowess
as a search it before the year 2000
search engines like altav Vista Ash CH
looksmart and Yahoo rued the web back
then if you had a question you'd go to
Ash CHS or if you wanted something
speciic you may check out looksmart or
alav Vista these search engines were
good at different things and none of
them were perfect at search so you had
to use multiple platforms and even when
you use them you got mediocre responses
so even if luar and alav Vista were
similar you would have to use both of
them for the same search query to really
get the result the answer that you are
looking for but the real value for these
search engines where they would end up
helping you find the answers to any of
your questions or find what you were
looking for in a world where all the
information was distorted in different
places in 1998 two college students in
Meno Park California created something
that would revolutionize the internet
Google was founded with one simple
Mission organize the world's information
and all in one place and when you
organize the world's information all in
one place you can serve up results
better based on what people are looking
for because you've crawled the whole web
and Google was better than all the other
searches not only with results but they
were more popular than Alternatives like
Yahoo because of their ease of look
instead of having tons of banner ads
everywhere and useless information that
you didn't want it was just a simple
search it was a white page with a search
box and a logo you type in a query you
click search you then get 10 results
with the top result usually being the
best result that would provide you with
the most accurate answer to your search
query with the user experience that no
other searching could even come close to
touching the name Google gole over time
became synonymous with search Google's
growth in market share kept increasing
in popularity and scale as time went on
from 2000 to the modern day and Google's
popularity has grown so much it's
considered a monopoly by the United
States government especially because
they own Google YouTube Chrome think
about that Android software running on
that phone that you may be using they're
pretty much everywhere and they're the
default search engine for most platforms
fast forward to today with over 45
billion internet searches happening
every single day only about 8 billion of
those are with Google and although that
may seem like a lot it means that Google
only claims 18% market share on the
world of search and SEO a far cry from
its former glory if you look at
Instagram 6.5 billion searches a day you
look at chat GPT a billion searches a
day even Pinterest has over 2 billion
searches a day Amazon 3.5 billion
searches a day and the people searching
on Amazon are looking to buy something
right now Google has compet ition from
everywhere these days when someone's
looking for a handbag a lot of times
they turn to Instagram and Tik Tok and
search for handbag instead of going to
Google so how did this happen well there
are three main reasons reason one is
shifts in user behavior when it comes to
using search engines people these days
have a lot of different ways they search
for example some people want
conversational based searches like you
would get with Chad GPT some people want
short concise responses like you can get
from Google some people even want to
type in one word and see inspiration out
there to give them ideas on what they
may be interested in and now people are
using voice search heck the younger
generation uses voice search before they
use text based searching see when we all
grew up we search based on typing young
kids these days learn to search through
devices like Alexa before they even
learn how to type and then there became
Alternatives that copied Google like
beam easy to use search engine with a
similar look without tons of clutter
reason two is Google's failure to
innovate quickly and better than their
competitors you search on Instagram you
quickly see a collage of images that
describes what you want or even videos
you ask chat GPT a question it just
gives you an answer instead of having to
go through 10 results to find your
answer you go on Amazon you quickly can
see all the products related to your
search the reviews their ratings and
which product is most likely best for
you based on your past purchasing
history Google has continually tried to
adapt they've copied chat GPT but the
results haven't been as good they'
copied Amazon and their look when it
comes to searching for a product but
again people still go to Amazon cuz it's
just a better experience overall and the
third reason is Google's heavy Reliance
on ads the way Google makes money is by
displaying ads every time you search you
see ads at the top and sometimes in
between but you pretty much see ads heck
even if you look at their shopping
section you search for a product they
show you all the ones that are paying at
the top and Google's Reliance on ads
creates a worse user experience and this
shifts preferences to Solutions like
chat gbt if you have a question you just
want to type it in get your answer not
see tons of results and not see any ads
now my prediction is Google is dying but
it's slowly dying it's not just going to
disappear tomorrow and with the decline
of a searching giant like Google SEO is
dramatically changing with it as well
now even though Google is dying it's
dying really in market share it's still
extremely popular more and more people
are using Google each year it's just
that there's more and more competition
for example people claim that Facebook
is dying but yet Facebook still
generates tens of billions of dollars in
year in revenue for meta it's just that
people use multiple social networks Tik
Tok did not kill Instagram Instagram did
not kill Facebook and SEO isn't dying
it's just changing where you shouldn't
just optimize for Google you now need to
optimize for Google Chat GPT Instagram
Amazon Tik Tok and the list goes on and
on if someone is searching for product
like a handbag they should be able to
find you on Google they should be able
to find you on Instagram they should be
able to get recommended your company
your handbag should be able to get
recommended when people ask chat GPT a
question about handbags you should be
everywhere that's the new form of SEO
the way you adapt your strategy is
through things like building a brand the
more you build a brand the more likely
are to get mention on all these
platforms the second thing you need to
do is look for engagement if a user
comes to your website or sees your
content and they engage that shows these
platforms that you have better content
better sites than your competition and
they should show you first in addition
to that you want to get mentioned all
over the web think of brand mentions as
like votes the more people mentioning
your company name or your product name
the more more it tells these platforms
that hey people actually like this
product or service or business and it
should be recommended more than others
the same goes with reviews and ratings
the more reviews and ratings you have
the more likely you are to get
recommended especially if those reviews
and ratings are 4 and 1 half out of five
stars if not higher search engine
optimization in essence is now search
everywhere optimization the best part
about all these changes is it gives you
more opportunity to get customers from
multiple platforms and grow faster you
now know longer have to be relying on
one platform like Google and if you
found this video useful check out my
other video on how to get rich with AI
in 2025